#SBSPS-Challenge-718-Predicting-the-energy-output-of-wind-turbine-based-on-the-whether-condition

#Project Description :

Wind speed/power has received increasing attention around the earth due to its renewable nature as well as environmental friendliness. With the global installed wind power capacity rapidly increasing, the wind industry is growing into a large-scale business. Reliable short-term wind speed forecasts play a practical and crucial role in wind energy conversion systems, such as the dynamic control of wind turbines and power system scheduling. A precise forecast needs to overcome problems of variable energy production caused by fluctuating weather conditions. Power generated by wind is highly dependent on the wind speed. Though it is highly non-linear, wind speed follows a certain pattern over a certain period of time. We exploit this time series pattern to gain useful information and use it for power prediction. 

Accurate and reliable wind speed forecasts are a significant challenge due to its stochastic nature with high rates of change, highly nonlinear behavior with no typical patterns, and dependency on elevation, terrain, atmospheric pressure, and temperature, which results in large uncertainties of wind speeds. This makes it difficult for any machine learning model to figure out a pattern and give an accurate prediction. We made an effort to interpret this problem as time series forecasting problem as wind follows a particular pattern for a certain period like a day, month or year.

According to the required skill set and the assumptions for designing a project, it is designed according to the need of the required output by all the team members.

Project development development environment is very important for successfully execution of the project.
Thats why, will create this using IBM resources.

This prediction problem was divided into two categories: 
1. Estimation: Given weather conditions like temperature, wind speed, pressure etc. determining the energy power prediction. 
2. Prediction: Without knowing any details about the weather conditions predicting the power generation using the pattern which it has followed in a certain period of time.

For these tasks, we required data sets for analysis of data on above mentioned basis.
The Dataset file is actually taken from Kaggle. 

We will upload a project description and feedback video of this project in my youtube channel link below: 
Project description Video: https://youtu.be/Acux0EouA_s
Feedback Video: 

The terms I learnt from the IBM Bootcamp, and by the mentors from SmartBridge are as follows:

Node_Red Dasboard link after deploying : https://node-red-vqivh.eu-gb.mybluemix.net/ui

Preview link of Watson Assistant : https://eu-gb.assistant.watson.cloud.ibm.com/eu-gb/crn:v1:bluemix:public:conversation:eu-gb:a~2F0d1fb70035ce4af6bec992d78e38057e:4846548c-dbfd-4009-9201-dd16b71e6093::/skills/ac7dff0a-cdf3-4def-9c05-5f563fd96679/build/intents Have a casual talks about availability_of_flight, booking a flight, check_status_of_a_flight like What is status of AA 456,etc.

Link for chat bot :- https://web-chat.global.assistant.watson.cloud.ibm.com/preview.html?region=eu-gb&integrationID=a7556d9f-4889-44fc-8c3a-4f37dd0e7d28&serviceInstanceID=9d3a578c-455f-4480-9f49-d65d0b0da22a
Have a Casual Talks about hotel food management, Availability of food ,Order food , Available Discount.
